
                             SCALASCA v2 README
                             ==================

The Scalasca project aims to develop a generic automatic performance analysis
environment for parallel applications.  It focuses on the identification of
potential performance bottlenecks by automatically recognizing and quantifying
patterns of inefficient behavior in event traces, and offers guidance in
exploring their causes.  In particular, Scalasca emphasizes on inefficiencies
concerning communication and synchronization.

The Scalasca Trace Tools build upon the analysis techniques developed over
the past years in the Scalasca 1.x release series.  The major difference is
that Scalasca v2 is now based on the community instrumentation and
measurement infrastructure Score-P (https://www.score-p.org/) rather than
providing its own measurement system.  This also means that the common
Score-P data formats CUBE4 (for profile data) and OTF2 (for trace data) are
used instead of the old CUBE3 and EPILOG formats provided by Scalasca 1.x.
However, backwards compatibility is ensured by also being able to read and
process trace files in EPILOG format (with the exception of traces stored in
SIONlib containers).  Similarly, the Cube v4 GUI can handle both CUBE3 and
CUBE4 files.

Scalasca v2 is released as open source under a BSD-style license.  Please see
the COPYING file in the package base directory for details.


Installation
============

See the INSTALL file for detailed information about how to configure, build
and install Scalasca.

NOTE: Scalasca v2 uses a different build system than Scalasca 1.x.  Therefore,
      users who are familiar with building and installing Scalasca v1 are also
      strongly encouraged to read the INSTALL file!


User Documentation
==================

Scalasca user documentation for a specific installation is by default
installed into the '$SCALASCA_ROOT/share/doc/scalasca' subdirectory.  At
present, however, user documentation is still limited.

 * Scalasca User Guide (manual/UserGuide.pdf | manual/html/index.html):

   Provides information to get you started and avoid common pitfalls.  Also
   includes a detailed reference for the most commonly used commands provided
   by the Scalasca Trace Tools package.

 * Scalasca Quick Reference (manual/QuickReference.pdf):

   Review of the main steps and commands for Scalasca usage.  Generally
   also accessible via the "scalasca --quickref" command from a Scalasca
   installation.  After basic familiarization with Scalasca usage, this
   short documentation should provide brief reminders of common commands
   and options.

 * Scalasca open issues & limitations (OPEN_ISSUES):

   Compendium of known limitations and unimplemented features that may affect
   Scalasca usability on various platforms or with certain applications, with
   suggested workarounds where appropriate.  Although issues may be uncommon
   and/or quite technically complex, users are encouraged to briefly review
   this document, particularly if they believe they have encountered a problem
   when using Scalasca, prior to contacting user support.


Web page & Contact
==================

For further more detailed information on Scalasca, Cube and Score-P see the
project webpages at

        https://www.scalasca.org/
        https://www.score-p.org/

For help, reporting bugs, and making comments or suggestions send e-mail to

        scalasca@fz-juelich.de
